# Ecosystem

In OrdDeFi, there are two enhanced assets: ODFI and ODGV.  

ODFI and ODGV are built-in assets within the OrdDeFi protocol and do not require require explicit invocation of the `"op":"deploy"` . The meta definitions of these two tokens are as follows:

```go
// coin_meta.go

func ODFIMeta() *memory_const.CoinMeta {
	result := new(memory_const.CoinMeta)
	result.Max = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("21000000")
	result.Lim = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("1000")
	result.AddrLim = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("1000")
	result.Desc = "The protocol major coin of OrdDeFi."
	result.Icon = ""
	return result
}

func ODGVMeta() *memory_const.CoinMeta {
	result := new(memory_const.CoinMeta)
	result.Max = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("21000000")
	result.Lim = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("1000")
	result.AddrLim = safe_number.SafeNumFromString("1000")
	result.Desc = "The governance coin of OrdDeFi."
	result.Icon = ""
	return result
}
```

ODFI and ODGV both follow a fair minting process. The total supply for each token is 21,000,000. During each minting transaction, a maximum of 1,000 tokens can be minted, and each address is limited to a maximum of 1,000 tokens.

## ODFI

ODFI is the primary coin of the OrdDeFi protocol, offering the following features:

### Fee Collection
By using ODFI in combination with any other coin as a liquidity provider, users can earn transaction fee rewards.

When initiating a swap with a non-ODFI coin, a total of 0.2% of that particular coin will be consumed as a transaction fee. Out of this, 0.18% goes to the current liquidity provider, and 0.02% goes to the liquidity provider formed by ODFI and that coin.

### Transaction Fee Discounts
Holding ODFI tokens provides discounts when executing swap commands. The number of tokens held is calculated by summing the available and transferable amounts:

* Holding 210 ODFI: 10% off.  
* Holding 2100 ODFI: 40% off.  
* Holding 21000 ODFI: 70% off.  

## ODGV

ODGV is the governance coin of the OrdDeFi protocol.

As a governance token, ODGV will be used in the future for:

Initiating proposals.
Voting on proposals.
Staking by oracle nodes for fees and node rewards.
Collateralizing the issuer of Tether coin.