# Operation Compiler

## Valid Witness Script Payload

All instructions must be engraved in the witness script of `TxIn[0]`, and the witness script of other `TxIn` is invalid.
Instructions must be engraved in the ord standard format, compatible with older versions of ord, which means curse inscriptions are still valid.

## Valid Content-Type

The Content-Type must be either `text/plain` or in the format `text/plain;charset=utf-8`, case insensitive.
Although any character set is allowed to be passed with the charset= parameter, the content will always be parsed in `UTF-8`.

## Batch Operations for AMM

The OrdDeFi AMM instructions (addlp, swap, rmlp) support batch operations, which are formatted as a JSON array encapsulating multiple JSON object instructions. In the following example, the liquidity provider for odfi-odgv is first removed, and then the odfi-halp liquidity provider is created using the odfi obtained from removing the LP and the "half" from the account:

```
[
  {"p":"orddefi","op":"rmlp","ltick":"odfi","rtick":"odgv","amt":1000},
  {"p":"orddefi","op":"addlp","ltick":"odfi","rtick":"half","lamt":1000,"ramt":1000},
  ...
]
```

However, the `deploy`, `mint`, and `transfer` instructions are not allowed to appear within batch operations. If they do, all instructions within the entire transaction will be invalidated.

## Instruction Execution Order

1. In different blocks, instructions in earlier blocks are executed first.  
2. For instructions within the same block, the execution order is determined based on the return value of `bitcoin-cli -getblock`.   

Typically:  

1. For non-CPFP (Child-Pays-for-Parent) transactions within the same block, transactions with higher gas fees are executed first.  
2. If it is a CPFP transaction where the output of transaction A is used as an input in transaction B, transaction A is executed first, followed by transaction B. 

For more details, you can debug at `updater.go` - func `UpdateBlockNumber`.

## Amount-Type Parameters

### All values need to be passed as strings; otherwise, they will be considered invalid instructions

Invalid:

```
{"p":"orddefi","op":"addlp","ltick":"odfi","rtick":"odgv","lamt":1000,"ramt":1000}
```

Valid:

```
{"p":"orddefi","op":"addlp","ltick":"odfi","rtick":"odgv","lamt":"1000","ramt":"1000"}
```

### Numeric formats must be represented in decimal notation without scientific notation

Invalid:

```
{"p":"orddefi","op":"transfer","tick":"odfi","amt":"1.234e3"}
```

Valid:

```
{"p":"orddefi","op":"transfer","tick":"odfi","amt":"1234"}
```

### Allowed precision for floating-point numbers

* All amount types have a fixed precision of 18 decimal places. If a number has more than 18 decimal places, the extra digits will be truncated.  
* The maximum length for the digits before the decimal point is 32. If it exceeds this limit, the instruction cannot be executed.  
* For example, in `{"amt":"2100.0123456789012345678", ...}`, the amt value will be processed as `2100.012345678901234567`.  
* Rounding follows the IEEE 754-2008 standard, specifically roundTowardNegative.  

### Handling of whitespace characters

Whitespace characters such as `" "`, `"\t"`, `"\n"` will be removed.  
For example, `"123 456.789"` will be processed as `"123456.789"`.

## Format for Tick-Type Parameters

For `tick`, `ltick` and `rtick` parameters, if they contain `"-"`, `"_"`, `":"`, or if they start with `"@"`, `"#"`, `"$"`, or `"%"`, the entire instruction will be discarded.  

### Transfer of UTXOs Carrying Transferable-State Coins Should Not Carry Instructions

When transferring UTXOs that carry coins to another address, no other instructions should be included. Any instructions included will be discarded.

## Authorization Verification

To maintain asset security, the execution of the following instructions requires authorization verification:

* Mint
* Direct transfer (transfer with the `to` parameter)
* Addition of liquidity provider (applp)
* Swap
* Removal of liquidity provider (rmlp)

There are two methods to authorize:

1. Within the transaction that holds the instructions, ensure that the address of the first input (TxIn[0]) corresponds with the address of the first output (TxOut[0]). Or:
2. For the commit transaction, the final output should be an OpReturn that reads "orddefi:auth", and the address of the first input (TxIn[0]) in the commit transaction should match the address of the first output (TxOut[0]) in the reveal transaction.