# Deploy

A typical `deploy` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"deploy",
  "tick":"half",
  "max":"210000000",
  "lim":"1000",
  "alim":"1000",
  "desc":"meme coin of Hal Finney",
  "icon":"Base64 string of icon"
}
```

Param list:  

* The `tick` parameter represents the currency name and must adhere to the following rules:
	* It must be encoded in UTF-8 and have a length of 4 when encoded in UTF-8.
	* It cannot contain "-", "_", or ":".
	* It cannot start with "@", "#", "$", or "%".
* The `max` parameter represents the total supply.
* The `lim` parameter represents the maximum quantity that can be minted per transaction.
* The `alim` parameter represents the maximum quantity that can be minted per address.
* The `desc` parameter provides a brief description of the coin.
* The `icon` parameter represents the Base64 encoded image.

Once the `deploy` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getcoinmeta [coin_name]` to query coin information.


# Mint

A typical `mint` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"mint",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

Param list: 
 
* The `tick` parameter represents the name of the coin currently being minted.
* The `amt` parameter represents the quantity minted in the current transaction. If it exceeds the `lim` parameter set in the `deploy` instruction, the minting is invalid.
* If the minted quantity exceeds the maximum limit for minting in the current address (set by the `alim` parameter in the `deploy` instruction), the available coin count will increase to the maximum limit for minting in the current address.

Please note that, to prevent `repeat mint`, the mint instruction needs to use the output with index 0 as the `TxIn[0]` for executing the mint transaction. If the `TxIn[0]` utxo has an output index other than 0 in the previous transaction, the minting is invalid.  

Based on this mechanism, only the first mint instruction will be effective when using the `repeat mint` feature.  
Mint instructions executed using the `ord wallet inscribe` without the `repeat mint` parameter will be considered valid instructions.

Once the `mint` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]` to query updated address balance.


# Transfer

There are two types of transfers: `UTXO transfer` and `direct transfer`.

## UTXO Transfer

A typical UTXO transfer instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

The `UTXO transfer` process is the same as the BRC-20 transfer process. Firstly, any address can inscribe an `UTXO transfer` instruction to the target address. If the `amt` param in the `UTXO transfer` instruction is less than or equal to the available sub-account of the current address, the specified amount of coins will be converted from the available state to the transferable state and temporarily stored in the UTXO of the inscribed `UTXO transfer` instruction.  

When this UTXO is transferred to another address, the transferable coins contained within the UTXO are also transferred to the new address. If the first sat in the UTXO is used as transaction fee, the coins included in the UTXO will be transferred to the available sub-account of the current address.

## Direct Transfer

A typical `direct transfer` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa"
}
```

The `direct transfer` instruction only requires a single reveal transaction to transfer coins. If the `amt` param in the `direct transfer` instruction is less than or equal to the available sub-account of the current address, coins from the available sub-account of the current address will be directly transferred to the available sub-account of the address specified in the `to` parameter.  

Note that the direct transfer instruction follows the authorization rules:   

1. Within the transaction that holds the instructions, ensure that the address of the first input (TxIn[0]) corresponds with the address of the first output (TxOut[0]). Or:
2. For the commit transaction, the final output should be an OpReturn that reads "orddefi:auth", and the address of the first input (TxIn[0]) in the commit transaction should match the address of the first output (TxOut[0]) in the reveal transaction.

The `to` parameter needs to be a valid Bitcoin address; otherwise, the `direct transfer` instruction will be invalid.  

Once the `transfer` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]` to query updated address balance.

### Danger Zone of Direct Transfer

#### Wormhole

When the `to` parameter of the `direct transfer` instruction is set to `wormhole`, the transferred coins will be destroyed in the current version of the OrdDeFi protocol and will be created in future versions. However, there are currently no specific instruction definitions for future versions, so calling this instruction will render the coins temporarily unavailable.

A typical `direct transfer to wormhole` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"wormhole"
}
```

#### Blackhole

When the `to` parameter of the `direct transfer` instruction is set to `blackhole`, the transferred coins will be permanently destroyed.

A typical `direct transfer to blackhole` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"blackhole"
}
```

# Add Liquidity Provider

A typical `addlp` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"addlp",
  "ltick":"odfi",
  "rtick":"odgv",
  "lamt":"1000",
  "ramt":"1000"
}
```

Param List:

* The `ltick` and `rtick` parameters represent the names of the coins for which liquidity providers are being added.
* The `lamt` parameter represents the amount of `ltick` being used to add liquidity.
* The `ramt` parameter represents the amount of `rtick` being used to add liquidity.

The coins will be added to the liquidity provider pool from the current address's available sub-account, in a 50:50 ratio based on the liquidity provider's current price. Any excess coins will be kept in the available sub-account.

Once the transaction for the `addlp` operation is confirmed, use the following commands for further queries:  

* To retrieve liquidity provider information for a specific coin pair, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getlpmeta [coinA-coinB]`.
* To check the balance of liquidity provider tokens owned by a specific address, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddresslpbalance [address]`.


# Swap

A typical `swap` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"swap",
  "ltick":"odfi",
  "rtick":"odgv",
  "spend":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

A `swap` instruction with `threshold` parameter:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"swap",
  "ltick":"odfi",
  "rtick":"odgv",
  "spend":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "threshold":"0.005"
}
```

Param List:

* The `ltick` and `rtick` parameters represent the names of the coins for which liquidity providers are trading on.
* The `spend` parameter represents the coin to spend, must equal to `ltick` or `rtick`.
* The `amt` parameter represents the amount of `spend` being used to swap.
* The `threshold` parameter represents the max allowable slippage at swap.

The `swap` instruction utilizes the widely adopted `x*y=k` algorithm within the Automated Market Maker (AMM).
When performing a `swap`, the price is subject to slippage. You can explicitly specify the `threshold` parameter to limit the maximum allowable slippage during the `swap`. If the price deviation exceeds the specified `threshold` in relation to the original price, the swap instruction will be abandoned, and the swap action will not be executed. By providing a `threshold` value of `0.005`, slippage of less than `0.5%` is allowed. If you do not provide this parameter, the `threshold` defaults to 1, which means allowing for the maximum slippage.

Once the transaction for the `swap` operation is confirmed, you can use the following commands for further queries:  

* To retrieve liquidity provider information for a specific coin pair, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getlpmeta [coinA-coinB]`.
* To check the balance of coins owned by a specific address, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]`.

The OrdDeFi kernel does not provide router functionality. Therefore, if you need to route between multiple liquidity providers (LPs), you should calculate the optimal swap path before making the call and include multiple swap instructions within the transaction. To understand how to include multiple swap instructions in a transaction, please refer to [Batch Operations for AMM](https://github.com/OrdDefi/OrdDefi-Virtual-Machine/blob/main/docs/4.1.OperationCompiler.md#batch-operations-for-amm)


# Remove Liquidity Provider

A typical `rmlp` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"rmlp",
  "ltick":"odfi",
  "rtick":"odgv",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

Param List:

* The `ltick` and `rtick` parameters represent the names of the coins for which liquidity providers are being removed.
* The `amt` parameter represents the amount of liquidity provider tokens being removed.

Before initiating the `rmlp` transaction, you can query the liquidity provider token amount of your address using the command: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddresslpbalance [address]`.

Once the transaction for the `rmlp` operation is confirmed, use the following commands to perform further queries:

* To retrieve liquidity provider information for a specific coin pair, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getlpmeta [coinA-coinB]`.
* To check the balance of coins owned by a specific address, use: `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]`.