# Deploy

A typical `deploy` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"deploy",
  "tick":"half",
  "max":"210000000",
  "lim":"1000",
  "alim":"1000",
  "desc":"meme coin of Hal Finney",
  "icon":"Base64 string of icon"
}
```

Param list:  

* The `tick` parameter represents the currency name and must adhere to the following rules:
	* It must be encoded in UTF-8 and have a length of 4 when encoded in UTF-8.
	* It cannot contain "-", "_", or ":".
	* It cannot start with "@", "#", "$", or "%".
* The `max` parameter represents the total supply.
* The `lim` parameter represents the maximum quantity that can be minted per transaction.
* The `alim` parameter represents the maximum quantity that can be minted per address.
* The `desc` parameter provides a brief description of the coin.
* The `icon` parameter represents the Base64 encoded image.

Once the `deploy` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getcoinmeta [coin_name]` to query coin information.


# Mint

A typical `mint` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"mint",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

Param list: 
 
* The `tick` parameter represents the name of the coin currently being minted.
* The `amt` parameter represents the quantity minted in the current transaction. If it exceeds the `lim` parameter set in the `deploy` instruction, the minting is invalid.
* If the minted quantity exceeds the maximum limit for minting in the current address (set by the `alim` parameter in the `deploy` instruction), the available coin count will increase to the maximum limit for minting in the current address.

Please note that, to prevent `repeat mint`, the mint instruction needs to use the output with index 0 as the `TxIn[0]` for executing the mint transaction. If the `TxIn[0]` utxo has an output index other than 0 in the previous transaction, the minting is invalid.  

Based on this mechanism, only the first mint instruction will be effective when using the `repeat mint` feature.  
Mint instructions executed using the `ord wallet inscribe` without the `repeat mint` parameter will be considered valid instructions.

Once the `mint` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]` to query updated address balance.


# Transfer

There are two types of transfers: `UTXO transfer` and `direct transfer`.

## UTXO Transfer

A typical UTXO transfer instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000"
}
```

The `UTXO transfer` process is the same as the BRC-20 transfer process. Firstly, any address can inscribe an `UTXO transfer` instruction to the target address. If the `amt` param in the `UTXO transfer` instruction is less than or equal to the available sub-account of the current address, the specified amount of coins will be converted from the available state to the transferable state and temporarily stored in the UTXO of the inscribed `UTXO transfer` instruction.  

When this UTXO is transferred to another address, the transferable coins contained within the UTXO are also transferred to the new address. If the first sat in the UTXO is used as transaction fee, the coins included in the UTXO will be transferred to the available sub-account of the current address.

## Direct Transfer

A typical `direct transfer` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa"
}
```

The `direct transfer` instruction only requires a single transaction (tx) to transfer coins. If the `amt` param in the `direct transfer` instruction is less than or equal to the available sub-account of the current address, coins from the available sub-account of the current address will be directly transferred to the available sub-account of the address specified in the `to` parameter.  

Note that when using the direct transfer instruction, TxIn[0] needs to be the same as TxOut[0] to verify the authority of invoking the `direct transfer`.  

The `to` parameter needs to be a valid Bitcoin address; otherwise, the `direct transfer` instruction will be invalid.  

Once the `transfer` operation's transaction is confirmed, use `./OrdDeFi-Virtual-Machine -getaddressbalance [address]` to query updated address balance.

### Danger Zone of Direct Transfer

#### Wormhole

When the `to` parameter of the `direct transfer` instruction is set to `wormhole`, the transferred coins will be destroyed in the current version of the OrdDeFi protocol and will be created in future versions. However, there are currently no specific instruction definitions for future versions, so calling this instruction will render the coins temporarily unavailable.

A typical `direct transfer to wormhole` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"wormhole"
}
```

#### Blackhole

When the `to` parameter of the `direct transfer` instruction is set to `blackhole`, the transferred coins will be permanently destroyed.

A typical `direct transfer to blackhole` instruction:

```
{
  "p":"orddefi",
  "op":"transfer",
  "tick":"odfi",
  "amt":"1000",
  "to":"blackhole"
}
```